# UERAMSIM

[**UERANSIM**](https://github.com/aligungr/UERANSIM) (pronounced "ju-i ræn sɪm"), is the open source state-of-the-art 5G UE and RAN (gNodeB) simulator. UE and RAN can be considered as a 5G mobile phone and a base station in basic terms. The project can be used for testing 5G Core Network and studying 5G System.

[**UERANSIM**](https://github.com/aligungr/UERANSIM)  introduces the world's first and only open source 5G-SA UE and gNodeB implementation.

The [**UERANSIM**](https://github.com/aligungr/UERANSIM) is used to perform tests on the 5G core control plane, as well as data plane tests, using slices.

## 5G gNB (RAN)

```
$ nr-gnb -c /etc/ueransim/tmp/open5gs-gnb-01.yaml 
```

### Files
Files used to deploy the gNB in a Kubernetes cluster.

- [gnb.yaml](gnb.yaml): Kubernet deplyment descriptor for gNB
- [gnb-init.yaml](gnb-init.yaml): Script for initContainer
- [gnb-configmap.yaml](gnb-configmap.yaml): Configmap with file nr-gnb config

## 5G UE

Command for establishing the connection with the gNB. The configuration file is dynamically modified by the [**ueinit**](ue-init.yaml) script. This script replaces the placeholder HOSTNAME with the actual IP address of the gNB and specifies the corresponding IMSI. The IMSI itself is generated by the [**initUE.py**](ue-init.yaml) script, which utilizes the value of the POD's IP address to create a unique IMSI. Subsequently, this IMSI is stored in the database.

```
$ nr-ue -c /etc/ueransim/tmp/open5gs-ue-01.yaml
```

```
$ nr-cli $imsi -e ps-release-all
$ nr-cli $imsi -e ps-list
```

### Files
Files used to deploy the UE in a Kubernetes cluster.

- [ue.yaml](ue.yaml): Kubernet deplyment descriptor for UE
- [ue-init.yaml](ue-init.yaml): Scripts for initContainer
  - [ueinit]: Script init UE                
  - [initUE.py]: Script for get IMSI for UE
- [ue-testing.yaml](ue-testing.yaml): Scripts for testing slices.